Blog Post: Build mode (#17615)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/everything-is-build-mode.md

Reviewer: Some more inspo maybe: https://x.com/posthog/status/2065480940500267413

---
date: 2026-06-14
title: "Everything (and everyone) is build mode now"
author:
  - cleo-lant
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/mr_potato_hog_83221a5307.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Blog
tags:
  - AI
  - Guides
---

There's a 2030 version of you who isn't boxed into one job function. Someone who has an idea in the morning and the means to ship it the same afternoon.

> Farfetched? Hardly. That version of you isn't waiting for 2030 – they exist today. They're in **build mode**, and they're not looking back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That version of you isn't waiting for 2030 – they exist today. They're in **build mode**, and they're not looking back.
```

This just doesn't quite land for me.

Reviewer: <img width="475" height="475" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7a207b1f-e5d4-4bc6-8ce0-11d27eb83ed2" />

## What is build mode?

Build mode is the version of you that ships a *lot* more. You could call it [everyone being an engineer now](/newsletter/engineeringification-of-everything), but I'd put it more precisely: [product engineers](/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer), product managers, and product marketers can finally play in each other's sandboxes.

Look at who's actually building with PostHog's AI products. In the last 30 days, people:

> - made more than 8 million [MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) tool calls

Author: I need to check these stats on monday. PostHog AI was being super flaky this weekend

Author: my boy was way off...

- held over 600,000 conversations with [PostHog AI](/ai)

> - created more than 750,000 [insights](/product-analytics)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Made more than 8 million [MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) tool calls
- Held over 600,000 conversations with [PostHog AI](/ai)
- Created more than 750,000 [insights](/product-analytics)
```

That's people building things. And a growing share of them would never call themselves engineers.

> In other words: build mode isn't really about more output. It's about making every person with a product function more capable.

Reviewer: I don't fully know what you mean by "with a product function"? Like in the product org? I feel like it's even broader than that (marketers aren't really in product org usually, at least content/paid ads ones)

![PostHog AI chat usage broken down by role](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/ai_chat_usage_by_role_f3eb44e198.png)
<Caption>Who's actually chatting with PostHog AI – plenty of them don't sit in engineering.</Caption>

## What you can build

> Reading this won't change your job title, so what does build mode mean for you? Here are some concrete things you can do today:

Reviewer: As Joe foreshadowed, I think we can probably remove the 2 h3s in this section and use h3s for all of the bolded titles. This is mostly because readers don't think in surfaces (platforms, whatever you call each of these), they think in jobs to be done in this context. It's better to catch their eye with these use cases then  PostHog in Slack or the other title.

I won't make all the changes that go with it, but that's what I think

```suggestion
Reading this won't change your job title, so what does build mode mean for you? Here are some concrete things you can do today with @PostHog in Slack, PostHog AI, the MCP, and PostHog Code:
```

### Use @PostHog in Slack

**1. Turn a question or complaint into a merged PR.**

In case you haven't met it: PostHog has a [Slack app](/docs/slack). Mention `@PostHog` in any channel and it can answer any question about your users or product usage.

Tag it with "fix this" or "build that" and it can code too. It spins up a sandbox, makes a plan, edits files, runs your checks, and opens a draft PR – answering your review comments right there in the thread. ([Here's how to set it up.](/docs/slack/setup))

In the first week it was available, usage split roughly into a quarter engineers, a quarter founders, and the rest marketing, product, support, and sales. People in every one of those roles have [shipped real PRs](/blog/slack-app-beta).

> **2. Settle an argument with a chart, in the thread where it started.**

Reviewer: I feel this is a little misleading because it can't create a chart yet as far as I know. The chart in the picture is from the subscription. 

```suggestion
**2. Settle an argument in the thread where it started.**
```

**3. Find your best users and go talk to them.**

[Case studies](/customers), alpha testers, champions to rally inside an account – they all start with finding your best users, which usually means digging through usage data nobody has time for. Ask `@PostHog`: *"Find my 10 most engaged users who've invited a teammate, and summarize their recent [session recordings](/session-replay)."* You get a shortlist back in the thread, with enough context to actually reach out.

![Pulling user data for a case study with @PostHog](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/case_study_user_research_59a375e521.png)
<Caption>I didn't have to ask sales or CS for a list – the context already lives in PostHog.</Caption>

**4. Find out which content actually converts.**

Our `#marketing-alerts` channel gets daily updates like "LLM prompts that drove signups" and "most-read articles."

On any insight you can follow up with something like `@PostHog`: *"Which articles convert to sign ups with immediate activation?"* It reads your [web analytics](/web-analytics) and product data together, so you might find one blog post quietly drives quality signups. Then you go write more like it.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe it's because these are both things I do, but this one feels like it overlaps with 2 so isn't necessary?

> ![Content and conversion insights in the #marketing-alerts Slack channel](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/marketing_alerts_in_slack_e9b76bdb43.png)

Reviewer: This is even using a slightly different feature which is AI summaries for dashboards: https://posthog.com/docs/product-analytics/subscriptions#ai-summaries

> <Caption>Our `#marketing-alerts` channel, where the content that's actually converting shows up daily.</Caption>

Reviewer: I don't think backticks work, but I think this works
```suggestion
<Caption>Our <code>#marketing-alerts</code> channel, where the content that's actually converting shows up daily.</Caption>
```

![A notebook PostHog AI built to help research this blog post](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/build_mode_notebook_741d3d939b.png)
<Caption>Never ship a number you can't stand behind. Ask PostHog AI to check it against real data first.</Caption>

**7. Build a product dashboard like a data engineer.**

Whether you're a [PM or a PMM](/blog/pm-pmm-collaboration), having your own view of how the product is doing – what's growing, what's breaking, who's converting – means you stop waiting on someone else to pull it for you.

Tell PostHog AI: *"Build me a dashboard for new-signup retention and activation by source."* It assembles the insights, and you go a few turns back and forth until it's filled with the metrics you care about.

The same trick works for a post-launch gut check – *"Anything weird in the last two hours versus yesterday?"* – and you'll know whether to relax or roll back.

![A product marketing dashboard built with PostHog](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_code_pmm_dashboard_5ec371cf8d.png)
<Caption>A glimpse at my real launch dashboard – I didn't build a single insight by hand.</Caption>

> **8. Build a weekly digest that writes itself.**

Reviewer: It's minor and probably unnecessary to do here, but do we want to push people towards more of our AI subscription features like this one:

https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C0AP5NXF8D7/p1781270119699169

If you already use something like Claude Cowork or Codex to prep for the week, add the [PostHog MCP](/docs/model-context-protocol) to the mix – now your agent can pull live product data alongside your calendar and meeting notes.

Set it on a schedule. Every Monday: *"summarize last week's activation, day-7 retention, and top onboarding drop-off versus the week before."* You walk into the week already knowing the numbers. [The highest-leverage AI work](/blog/making-claude-cowork-actually-useful) usually isn't a task you'd do faster, it's one you'd never get around to at all.

**9. Create a cohort for your next campaign – and the tracking to measure it.**

> I do this all the time to figure out who to email about a product launch: I ask PostHog AI to pull the list, either in the web app or through the MCP in PostHog Code. The prompt is just a description – *"create a cohort of users who visited the pricing page at least twice in the last 30 days but never started a trial"* – and that [cohort](/docs/data/cohorts) now exists in PostHog, ready to email or sync to your ad platform so you're reaching warm intent instead of cold lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To figure out who to email about a product launch, I always ask PostHog AI to pull the list, either in the web app or through the MCP in PostHog Code. The prompt is just a description – *"create a cohort of users who visited the pricing page at least twice in the last 30 days but never started a trial"* – and that [cohort](/docs/data/cohorts) now exists in PostHog, ready to email or sync to your ad platform so you're reaching warm intent instead of cold lists.
```

It works the other way too. Ask *"what events are we already tracking in the checkout flow?"* and your agent reads the schema live, then adds the missing `checkout_step_completed` call and opens the PR. Shipping a real change becomes part of the same conversation as asking about your data – the heart of [agent-first product engineering](/newsletter/agent-first-product-engineering).

**10. Run a real growth experiment.**

Sure, you can test button colors and copy changes. But the experiments that actually move growth usually need a code change.

That used to mean waiting in an engineer's queue. Now you tell PostHog Code: *"Add an experiment that nudges free users to upgrade when they hit the dashboard limit, measuring trial starts."* It builds the variant, wires up the [experiment](/experiments) and metric, and opens the PR – which is how [AI quietly killed the case for no-code experiment tools](/blog/ai-is-killing-no-code-experiments).

## Build mode is multiplayer

Build mode isn't a solo act. Some of the best work happening at PostHog is in public Slack channels: a thread starts with an idea and ends with shipped code.

> And that know-how compounds. The old way to pass on how you do something was to write an SOP – a document that tells you how to do the thing but can't do it itself. A [skill](/docs/posthog-code/skills) can: it's your judgment written down in a form an agent can actually run, so the next person doesn't start from scratch.

Reviewer: I don't immediately know the acronym
```suggestion
And that know-how compounds. The old way to pass on how you do something was to write an standard operating procedure – a document that tells you how to do the thing but can't do it itself. A [skill](/docs/posthog-code/skills) can: it's your judgment written down in a form an agent can actually run, so the next person doesn't start from scratch.
```

If your company is *cautiously* adopting AI, this is the cleanest way to let people work outside their lane – the agent runs on your colleagues' codified judgment, not a blank prompt. We keep ours in a few places: the [skills store](/docs/prompt-management/skills-store), the [`.claude` folder](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/tree/master/.claude) in our website repo, and the company [handbook](/handbook).

> 

Author: A good space for a meme. Maybe something like this?
Could use as is and credit/link as further reading since it's a good [article](https://singularityhub.com/2016/04/05/how-to-think-exponentially-and-better-predict-the-future/)?

<img width="1500" height="743" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4edca0d4-8560-4b03-b985-43f54bd087a4" />

## Meet the 2030 version of you

> I get it – it's intimidating. Build mode hands you the ability to [always be launching](https://andrewchen.substack.com/p/always-be-launching), which means you now have to decide what to build. Good news: AI doesn't care what's on your resume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build mode hands you the ability to [always be launching](https://andrewchen.substack.com/p/always-be-launching), which means you now have to decide what to build. Good news: AI doesn't care what's on your resume.
```

At a previous company, I was cross-functional but still firmly inside a lane (marketing). I wasn't allowed near the source code, and even if I had been, I wouldn't have known where to start. The version of me powered by AI is a completely different shape, and I see it happening all around me. Engineers are [designing](/newsletter/vibe-designing). Product managers are shipping code instead of writing PRDs. Everyone gets to be a product *person*.

This is the thing people actually wanted from AI: the ability to imagine something and then have it exist. It's a genie lamp except you are, in fact, allowed to wish for more wishes.

### So, go build

There's a version of you doing the most interesting work of your life, and the only thing standing between you and that person is the decision to be a builder. Once you're in build mode, the only limits left are your taste and your nerve.

> So, go build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

I don't think you need to over-stick the landing.

Reviewer: yes, I like the genie lamp ending
